In this lecture, we take a second look at surgeons.
So before we begin writing code, let me first explain the test to you.
So I'm going to open up Chrome and go to automation test in the code at UK and this time I'm going to
click on the test link which would take you to the following page.
So this test is going to click on the first product you scan to add the product of of quantity of one
to the cards.
And then what it's going to do is going to check the amount total.
So I know the product cost $19.12 plus shipping of $7 gets added to the total is 2612.
And so what I'm going to do is write a test using an assertion to make sure that this total amount is
that value.
So I am.
Before I begin this test, I'm just going to remove this from the car and I'm going to minimize the
web page.
So I'm going to open up clips and I'm going to copy and paste from the class from the last lecture.
And it's new class.
I'm going to call LSM for Lecture ten Assertion Part two and then click, okay, I'm going to double
click it and then I'm going to remove all the code from the last lecture.
We don't need to add the driver.
They'll get method.
So the first thing I'm going to do is if I go back to automation testing is I'm going to inspect the
page.
Open up the runner UPS Velocity panel and then with the selector tool.
So if I expand the menu first and then get to selected, so I'm going to find a selector for the test.
All right.
So by clicking it.
And I'm going to use this time and then again to use link text.
So I'm going to write
driver, find elements via link text and then in the quotes I'm going to place the text and I'll have
a semicolon at the end of that line.
So once he's done that, it will take us to this page here.
So I want to click on the first product.
So again, I'm going to get a selected tool.
And click on that first image.
And I am just going to use a the first CSS selector.
So I'm going to copy it and I'm going to write driver dot fun elements but CSF selector and then just
place the value on the right dots click because we need to click the image in order to go to the product
page.
So if I click it, it would take me to this page.
And on this page I don't want to change the size of quantity.
I just want to add to CART.
So again, I'm going to get the selector and click Add to Cart and I'm going to take the first CSA selector
and simply write driver thoughts, find elements,
but CSA selector and then pacer value.
And again I want to click it like so.
So once I've added the license to the car.
It would then display this page.
So I need to get that total amount.
So I'm going to get the selected tool and I'm going to hover over it and click it.
And you see that I'm again providing selectors.
So I'm going to take that first selector and I'm simply going to write Driver Dot Fun elements by CSA
selector pacer value.
But this time I'm going to use a method of DOT that text and a semicolon.
So what this law is going to do is it's going to find this element and it's going to get the text of
it.
So we can use that text in an assertion.
So before I test this, I need to surround this line in a system out or print line so that I can see
the value output in the console.
So I'm going to simply write system dots out the print now and open and close in brackets in a semicolon
and on this line.
So without the semicolon, I'm going to simply cut and paste it inside the brackets.
So let's try running this test.
I'm going to save it.
And then right click run as Java application.
So the test hasn't gone to the test store.
Let's look one.
So if I go back to Eclipse, you'll see it as an error here.
And if I look at the EVA.
We should see.
So here's the useful part.
Unable to locate element.
And if I go across.
It says Hummingbird T-shirt.
So if I look at my code here, this is where where you struct in the code to click on that particular
selector.
So why hasn't it found the element?
The reason why is because when I find the link takes test store.
I'm not clicking it.
So all this doing is going to the home page and it's located this element.
But because I haven't used the Click Command hasn't actually clicked it.
So I'm going to amend this code, but swiping dots click like, so get rid of one of those semicolons
and then I'm going to try running the test again.
So I'm going to go to file safe right click run as the drive replication if it progresses further.
So it's gone to the test on.
Add to CART and it's gone to the cart over.
So if I go back to my coat, you'll see, though, there's another error.
So let's take a look to see what's happened.
This sun.
So again, it says, unable to locate elements.
Products how to value.
Now the reason this happened is that the code is executed so fast they try and find the selector before
the page was loaded.
So we're going to talk about how we deal with this problem when we get to the white section of this
course.
But for now, I'm just going to, as a friend, the sleep of 2 seconds just to slow the test down.
So, again, let's try that once more.
And if I go back to Eclipse, you'll see that it's now outputted the value.
So this line here correctly finds the total and then it gets the text for the element.
So now that we know that works, we can use that in an assertion.
So I am going to get rid of the system, pull out the print line.
Like so and this time I'm going to use an assertion so assert with a capital I thought assert equals
and I am going to just pick this one here.
So this physical object has the premises.
And in the first one is going to be the expected value.
So I expect this to be dollar 2612.
And the actual value is going to be this line here.
So instead of copying all this into the second parameter, I'm going to store it in a variable.
So I'm going to create a string variable called total equals.
That line of text, that line of code.
So that's going to get the text of that element and place it and store it in its total variable.
So I'm going to copy that variable control C and I'm just going to simply paste it.
After the comma within the brackets.
So let's try Monday's test one more time.
So I do file.
Save and run it as a Java application.
Let's see what happens.
So if I go back to Eclipse, you'll see there's no ever there.
So to confirm that if I change that to $26.11 and if I say this test and run it again.
Let's see if it correctly fails.
And you can see in the console the expected $26.11.
But the value that was retrieved was $26.12.
And for that reason, the test failed.
So I hope this second example has been useful to you, as will be used in assertions later in this course.
Thank you for watching.